## DATA VISUALISATION PROJECT

### INTRODUCTION

Kiva is an online crowdfunding loans platform, providing help to financially excluded people for various causes, from student tuition to emergency healthcare.
According to Kiva: 'more than 1.7B people around the world are unbanked and can't access the financial services they need'.
So far, Kiva has connected more than 3.9M borrowers with 1.9M lenders in 77 countries, providing a total of $1.56B of loans to people in financial need.

### SCOPE

#### GOALS

1. Explore the distribution of loan amounts by country, project, and gender using various visualisation tools.
2. Identify any biases in the loans distributed, based on the attributes of the lenders.

#### ACTIONS

- Based on the results of the analysis, is there anything about the general trends and patterns of Kiva's loan distribution that indicates certain gender,
country, or project biases exist?
- If biases do exist, what can Kiva do to address those biases?

#### DATA
- The data was provided by Kiva as part of Kaggle's 'Data Science For Good: Kiva Crowdfunding' challenge project in 2018.
- The data goes back two years from the date of publishing, to 2016.
- There are 5 columns in the dataset, containing information on loan amount, type of activity the loan financed, country where the project is based,
and gender of the person applying for the loan.
- There are 65,499 samples in total.

#### ANALYSIS

1. Bar charts of average loan amount by country, hue gender
2. Box plot of loan amount by country
3. Box plot of loan amount by project activity
4. Violin plot of loan amount by project activity
5. Violin plot of loan amount by country, hue gender

### CONCLUSIONS

### DISCUSSION AND EVALUATION

- Figure 1.1 shows a bar plot of the average loan amount received in each country. Philippines has the lowest average loan amount received, of $328.09,
while Cambodia has the highest, of $645.09.

- Figure 1.2 shows the same bar plot, split by gender. Here, one can see that males tend to receive significantly higher loan amounts than females do,
yet far more females apply for loans than males in each country:

       country  gender  count\
0     Cambodia  female      93\
1     Cambodia    male      75\
2  El Salvador  female    5480\
3  El Salvador    male     692\
4        Kenya  female    4943\
5        Kenya    male    2157\
6     Pakistan  female    1732\
7     Pakistan    male      54\
8  Philippines  female   49384\
9  Philippines    male     889

- For Philippines and El Salvador, the difference in average loan amounts isn\'92t as great as for the other countries, however, a two-sample t-test confirmed
that for both, Philippines and El Salvador, this disparity is still statistically significant. It should be noted, however, that population of loan-receiving 
males and loan-receiving females in either country are not normally distributed, and for Philippines the standard deviations of male and female distributions 
are also vastly different. Hence, the all of required assumptions for two-sample t-test validity were not met.

- Figure 2.1 shows a series of box plots of loan amounts by country:

	- For Philippines and Pakistan, the loan amounts exceeding circa $720 are upper bound outliers, meaning it is much less likely that applicants in those 
	countries would receive a loan amount of greater than $720.
	- Philippines has the lowest median loan value of $300.0, followed closely by Kenya, with a median of $325.0. The highest median loan amount is in 
	Cambodia, equal to $700.0.
	- The most narrow distribution of loan amounts is in Pakistan. with interquartile range equal to $150.0, while the widest distribution is in El Salvador, 
	equal to $350.0. Of those countries where upper bound outliers do not exist (Kenya, El Salvador, Cambodia), the most narrow distribution belongs to El 
	Salvador.
	
- Looking again at the raw numbers of males and females in each country:

       country  gender  count\
0     Cambodia  female      93\
1     Cambodia    male      75\
2  El Salvador  female    5480\
3  El Salvador    male     692\
4        Kenya  female    4943\
5        Kenya    male    2157\
6     Pakistan  female    1732\
7     Pakistan    male      54\
8  Philippines  female   49384\
9  Philippines    male     889

- It is apparent that in Cambodia, the number of applicants in total is much less than in El Salvador or Kenya. With this in mind, and considering the information 
from Figure 1.2, where large disparity in loan amounts given to males and females are seen in both Kenya and Cambodia, but much less so in El Salvador, it can be 
said that one is much more likely to receive a high loan amount in El Salvador regardless of gender than in any other country. However, if one is male, one is 
more likely to receive the largest possible loan amount in Cambodia, where the median is highest.

- Additional information about each distribution can be seen in the violin plot, Figure 3.2, and Figure 3.3 shows violin plots by country, split by gender, further 
highlighting the male-female disparity.

- Figure 2.1 shows a series of box plots of loan amounts by project activity. Farming boasts the highest median of $425.0, while the lowest is for General Store, 
equal to $300.0. The number of applications for farming activities, however, is much lower than for the other two activities and represents only Kenya and 
Pakistan:

                activity  count\
0                Farming   2744\
1  Food Production/Sales  13239\
2          General Store  49516

- Farming also has the widest IQR, with the third and fourth quarters being more spread over higher loan amount values.

- Figure 3.1 shows additional information about each distribution by activity as a violin plot, showing that General Store activity has a particularly high KDE 
in the first and second quartiles, where the loan amount is lowest. This is explained by the fact that Philippines accounts for the vast majority (41,734) General 
Store applications, while also having the lowest average loan amount per country for this activity of $334.40.

- Food Production/ Sales and General Store both receive the substantial loan amounts on average from Cambodia and El Salvador.

### CONCLUSIONS

- Males receive significantly greater loan amounts than females do in each country despite there being significantly more female loan applications.

- One is much more likely to receive a high loan amount in El Salvador regardless of gender than in any other country. However, if one is male, one is more 
likely to receive the largest possible loan amount in Cambodia, where the median loan amount is highest.

- Kenya and Pakistan are the only countries that apply for Farming loans from this dataset, and applicants can expect to receives generous loan amounts, with 
the average being 459.98USD and 427.31USD  respectively.

- For other activities, General Store is the least likely to receive a high loan amount, especially in Philippines, where the average loan amount for this 
activity is 334USD.
